README.md, before:

# ETL Transformers

[![Minimum PHP Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/php-%3E%3D%207.4-8892BF.svg)](https://php.net/)

## Description

Set of ETL generic Transformers

## Transformer - FilterRows

Filter out rows

```php 
<?php

use Flow\ETL\Transformer\Filter\EntryEqualsTo;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\FilterRowsTransformer;
use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;

$transformer = new FilterRowsTransformer(
    new EntryEqualsTo('status', 'NEW'),
);

$transformer->transform(
    new Rows(
        Row::create(new Row\Entry\StringEntry('status', 'PENDING')),
        Row::create(new Row\Entry\StringEntry('status', 'SHIPPED')),
        Row::create(new Row\Entry\StringEntry('status', 'NEW')),
    )
);

```

Available Filters

- [All](src/Flow/ETL/Transformer/Filter/Filter/All.php)
- [Any](src/Flow/ETL/Transformer/Filter/Filter/Any.php)
- [Callback](src/Flow/ETL/Transformer/Filter/Filter/Callback.php)
- [EntryEqualsTo](src/Flow/ETL/Transformer/Filter/Filter/EntryEqualsTo.php)
- [EntryNotEqualsTo](src/Flow/ETL/Transformer/Filter/Filter/EntryNotEqualsTo.php)
- [EntryNotNull](src/Flow/ETL/Transformer/Filter/Filter/EntryNotNull.php)
- [EntryNotNumber](src/Flow/ETL/Transformer/Filter/Filter/EntryNotNumber.php)
- [EntryNumber](src/Flow/ETL/Transformer/Filter/Filter/EntryNumber.php)
- [EntryExists](src/Flow/ETL/Transformer/Filter/Filter/EntryExists.php)
- [Opposite](src/Flow/ETL/Transformer/Filter/Filter/Opposite.php)

## Transformer - RemoveEntriesTransformer

Remove transformers by name from each row.

```php
<?php

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\RemoveEntriesTransformer;

$transformer = new RemoveEntriesTransformer('id', 'array');

$transformer->transform(
    Row::create(
        new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('id', 1),
        new Row\Entry\StringEntry('name', 'Row Name'),
        new Row\Entry\ArrayEntry('array', ['test'])
    )
);
```

## Transformer - ArrayUnpackTransformer

Unpacks ArrayEntry into dedicated Entries detecting each array element type.

```php
<?php

use Flow\ETL\Exception\RuntimeException;
use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\ArrayUnpackTransformer;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\RemoveEntriesTransformer;

$arrayUnpackTransformer = new ArrayUnpackTransformer('array_entry');

$rows = (new RemoveEntriesTransformer('array_entry'))->transform(
    $arrayUnpackTransformer->transform(
        new Rows(
            Row::create(
                new Row\Entry\ArrayEntry('array_entry', [
                    'id' => 1,
                    'status' => 'PENDING',
                    'enabled' => true,
                    'datetime' =>  new \DateTimeImmutable('2020-01-01 00:00:00 UTC'),
                    'array' => ['foo', 'bar'],
                    'json' => '["foo", "bar"]',
                    'object' => new \stdClass(),
                    'null' => null,
                ]),
            ),
        ),
    )
);

$this->assertEquals(
    new Rows(
        Row::create(
            new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('id', 1),
            new Row\Entry\StringEntry('status', 'PENDING'),
            new Row\Entry\BooleanEntry('enabled', true),
            new Row\Entry\DateTimeEntry('datetime', new \DateTimeImmutable('2020-01-01 00:00:00 UTC')),
            new Row\Entry\ArrayEntry('array', ['foo', 'bar']),
            new Row\Entry\JsonEntry('json', ['foo', 'bar']),
            new Row\Entry\ObjectEntry('object', new \stdClass()),
            new Row\Entry\NullEntry('null')
        ),
    ),
    $rows
);
```

## Transformer - Keep Entries

```php
<?php

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\KeepEntriesTransformer;

$rows = new Rows(
    Row::create(
        new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('id', 1),
        new Row\Entry\StringEntry('name', 'Row Name'),
        new Row\Entry\ArrayEntry('array', ['test'])
    )
);

$transformer = new KeepEntriesTransformer('name');

$this->assertSame(
    [
        ['name' => 'Row Name'],
    ],
    $transformer->transform($rows)->toArray()
);
```

## Transformer - ObjectToArray

This transformer requires `laminas/laminas-hydrator` or `ocramius/generated-hydrator` in the project

```
composer require laminas/laminas-hydrator
```

```php
<?php

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\ObjectToArrayTransformer;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\Tests\Fixtures\Example;
use GeneratedHydrator\Configuration;

$objectToArrayTransformer = new ObjectToArrayTransformer(
    (new Configuration(Example::class))->createFactory()->getHydrator(),
    'object_entry'
);

$rows = $objectToArrayTransformer->transform(
    new Rows(
        Row::create(
            new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('old_int', 1000),
            new Row\Entry\ObjectEntry('object_entry', new Example()),
        ),
    ),
);

$this->assertEquals(
    new Rows(
        Row::create(
            new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('old_int', 1000),
            new Row\Entry\ArrayEntry('object_entry', [
                'foo' => 1,
                'bar' => 2,
                'baz' => 3,
                'bad' => new \DateTimeImmutable('2020-01-01 00:00:00 UTC'),
            ])
        ),
    ),
    $rows
);

```

## Transformer - RenameEntries 


```php 
<?php

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\RenameEntries\EntryRename;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\RenameEntriesTransformer;

$renameTransformer = new RenameEntriesTransformer(
    new EntryRename('old_int', 'new_int'),
    new EntryRename('null', 'nothing')
);

$rows = $renameTransformer->transform(
    new Rows(
        Row::create(
            new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('old_int', 1000),
            new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('id', 1),
            new Row\Entry\StringEntry('status', 'PENDING'),
            new Row\Entry\BooleanEntry('enabled', true),
            new Row\Entry\DateTimeEntry('datetime', new \DateTimeImmutable('2020-01-01 00:00:00 UTC')),
            new Row\Entry\ArrayEntry('array', ['foo', 'bar']),
            new Row\Entry\JsonEntry('json', ['foo', 'bar']),
            new Row\Entry\ObjectEntry('object', new \stdClass()),
            new Row\Entry\NullEntry('null')
        ),
    ),
);

$this->assertEquals(
    new Rows(
        Row::create(
            new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('id', 1),
            new Row\Entry\StringEntry('status', 'PENDING'),
            new Row\Entry\BooleanEntry('enabled', true),
            new Row\Entry\DateTimeEntry('datetime', new \DateTimeImmutable('2020-01-01 00:00:00 UTC')),
            new Row\Entry\ArrayEntry('array', ['foo', 'bar']),
            new Row\Entry\JsonEntry('json', ['foo', 'bar']),
            new Row\Entry\ObjectEntry('object', new \stdClass()),
            new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('new_int', 1000),
            new Row\Entry\NullEntry('nothing')
        ),
    ),
    $rows
);
```

## Transformer - Cast

```php

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\Cast\CastToDateTime;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\CastTransformer;

$entry = new StringEntry('date', '2020-01-01 00:00:00 UTC');
$transformer = new CastTransformer(new CastToDateTime('date', 'Y-m-d H:i:s.P'));
$rows = $transformer->transform(new Rows(new Row(new Row\Entries($entry))));

$this->assertInstanceOf(DateTimeEntry::class, $rows->first()->get('date'));
$this->assertSame('2020-01-01 00:00:00.+00:00', $rows->first()->valueOf('date'));
```

Casting Types: 

* `Flow\ETL\Transformer\Cast\CastToDateTime`
* `Flow\ETL\Transformer\Cast\CastToDate`
* `Flow\ETL\Transformer\Cast\CastToString`
* `Flow\ETL\Transformer\Cast\CastToInteger`
* `Flow\ETL\Transformer\Cast\CastToJson`
* `Flow\ETL\Transformer\Cast\CastToArray`
* `Flow\ETL\Transformer\Cast\CastJsonToArray`

## Transformer - EntryNameCaseConverter

This transformer requires `jawira/case-converter` in the project

```
composer require jawira/case-converter
```

```php

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\EntryNameCaseConverterTransformer;

$transformer = new EntryNameCaseConverterTransformer(EntryNameCaseConverterTransformer::STYLE_SNAKE);

$rows = $transformer->transform(new Rows(
    Row::create(
        new Row\Entry\StringEntry('CamelCaseEntryName', 'test'),
        new Row\Entry\StringEntry('otherCaseEntryName', 'test'),
    )
));

$this->assertSame(
    [
        [
            'camel_case_entry_name' => 'test',
            'other_case_entry_name' => 'test'
        ]
    ],
    $rows->toArray()
);
```

Supported styles: 

``` 
public const STYLE_CAMEL = 'camel';
public const STYLE_PASCAL = 'pascal';
public const STYLE_SNAKE = 'snake';
public const STYLE_ADA = 'ada';
public const STYLE_MACRO = 'macro';
public const STYLE_KEBAB = 'kebab';
public const STYLE_TRAIN = 'train';
public const STYLE_COBOL = 'cobol';
public const STYLE_LOWER = 'lower';
public const STYLE_UPPER = 'upper';
public const STYLE_TITLE = 'title';
public const STYLE_SENTENCE = 'sentence';
public const STYLE_DOT = 'dot';
```

For the more details, please visit [jawira/case-converter](https://github.com/jawira/case-converter) documentation.

## Transformer - CallbackEntry

```php
<?php

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Row\Entry;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\CallbackEntryTransformer;

$callbackTransformer = new CallbackEntryTransformer(
    fn (Entry $entry) : Entry => new $entry(\str_replace('-', '_', $entry->name()), $entry->value())
);

$rows = $callbackTransformer->transform(
    new Rows(
        Row::create(
            new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('old-int', 1000),
            new Entry\StringEntry('string-entry ', 'String entry')
        )
    )
);

$this->assertEquals(new Rows(
    Row::create(
        new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('old_int', 1000),
        new Entry\StringEntry('string_entry ', 'String entry')
    )
), $rows);
```

## Transformer - ArrayExpand

This transformer takes array and expands it elements into new rows. It can take an array of anything, including 
an array of other arrays. 

```php 

use Flow\ETL\Exception\RuntimeException;
use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\ArrayExpandTransformer;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\ArrayUnpackTransformer;

$arrayExpandTransformer = new ArrayExpandTransformer('array_entry');

$rows = $arrayExpandTransformer->transform(
    new Rows(
        Row::create(
            new Row\Entry\StringEntry('string_entry', 'foo'),
            new Row\Entry\ArrayEntry('array_entry', [1, 2]),
        ),
    ),
);

$this->assertEquals(
    [
        [
            'element' => 1,
            'string_entry' => 'foo',
        ],
        [
            'element' => 2,
            'string_entry' => 'foo',
        ],
    ],
    $rows->toArray()
);
```

## Transformer - StringFormat

```php 

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\StringFormatTransformer;

$transformer = new StringFormatTransformer('id', 'https://examlpe.com/resource/%d');

$rows = $transformer->transform(new Rows(
    new Row(new Row\Entries(new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('id', 1))),
    new Row(new Row\Entries(new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('id', 2))),
    new Row(new Row\Entries(new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('id', 3))),
));

$this->assertSame(
    [
        ['id' => 'https://examlpe.com/resource/1'],
        ['id' => 'https://examlpe.com/resource/2'],
        ['id' => 'https://examlpe.com/resource/3'],
    ],
    $rows->toArray()
);
```

## Transformer - NullStringIntoNullEntry

```php 

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\NullStringIntoNullEntryTransformer;

$transformer = new NullStringIntoNullEntryTransformer('description', 'recommendation');

$rows = $transformer->transform(new Rows(
    Row::create(
        new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('id', 1),
        new Row\Entry\BooleanEntry('active', false),
        new Row\Entry\StringEntry('name', 'NULL'),
        new Row\Entry\StringEntry('description', 'NULL'),
        new Row\Entry\StringEntry('recommendation', 'null')
    )
));

$this->assertSame(
    [[
        'id' => 1,
        'active' => false,
        'name' => 'NULL',
        'description' => null,
        'recommendation' => null,
    ]],
    $rows->toArray()
);
```

## Transformer - Clone 

```php 

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Row\Entry;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\CloneEntryTransformer;

$rows = (new CloneEntryTransformer('id', 'id-copy'))
    ->transform(
        new Rows(
            Row::create(new Entry\IntegerEntry('id', 1))
        )
    );

$this->assertSame(
    [
        ['id' => 1, 'id-copy' => 1]
    ],
    $rows->toArray()
);
```

## Transformer - ObjectMethod

Executes method at other ObjectEntry and create new entry from the result. 
Origin ObjectEntry is not automatically removed from the Row.

```php 

use Flow\ETL\Exception\RuntimeException;
use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\ObjectMethodTransformer;

$transformer = new ObjectMethodTransformer('object', 'toArray');

$rows = $transformer->transform(new Rows(
    Row::create(new Row\Entry\ObjectEntry('object', $object = new class {
        public function toArray() : array
        {
            return [
                'id' => 1,
                'name' => 'object'
            ];
        }
    }))
));

$this->assertSame(
    [
        [
            'object' => $object,
            'method_entry' => [
                'id' => 1,
                'name' => 'object'
            ]
        ]
    ],
    $rows->toArray()
);
```

## Transformer - ArrayAccessor

Access ArrayEntry value by path in dot notation and create new entry from result.
When strictPath parameter is set to false it creates NullEntry even if path is invalid.

```php 

use Flow\ETL\Exception\RuntimeException;
use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\ObjectMethodTransformer;

$transformer = new ObjectMethodTransformer('object', 'toArray');

$arrayAccessorTransformer = new ArrayAccessorTransformer('array_entry', 'array.foo');

$rows = $arrayAccessorTransformer->transform(
    new Rows(
        Row::create(
            new Row\Entry\ArrayEntry('array_entry', [
                'id' => 1,
                'status' => 'PENDING',
                'enabled' => true,
                'array' => ['foo' => 'bar'],
            ]),
        ),
    )
);

$this->assertEquals(
    new Row\Entry\StringEntry('array.foo', 'bar'),
    $rows->first()->get('array.foo')
);
```


## Transformer - StringConcat

Entries that are not StringEntry type will be skipped even if entry exists

```php 

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\StringConcatTransformer;

$transformer = new StringConcatTransformer([
    'id', 'first_name', 'last_name'
]);

$rows = $transformer->transform(new Rows(
    Row::create(
        new Row\Entry\StringEntry('id', '1'),
        new Row\Entry\StringEntry('first_name', 'Norbert'),
        new Row\Entry\StringEntry('last_name', 'Orzechowicz'),
    )
));

$this->assertSame(
    [
        [
            'id' => '1',
            'first_name' => 'Norbert',
            'last_name' => 'Orzechowicz',
            'element' => '1 Norbert Orzechowicz'
        ]
    ],
    $rows->toArray()
);
```

## Development

In order to install dependencies please, launch following commands:

```bash
composer install
composer install --working-dir ./tools
```

## Run Tests

In order to execute full test suite, please launch following command:

```bash
composer build
```

It's recommended to use [pcov](https://pecl.php.net/package/pcov) for code coverage however you can also use
xdebug by setting `XDEBUG_MODE=coverage` env variable.

Commit message:

Improve ArrayAccessorTransformer by adding wildacrd support to path analyzer (#56)
* Improve ArrayAccessorTransformer by adding wildacrd support to path analyzer

* CS Fixes

README.md, after:

# ETL Transformers

[![Minimum PHP Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/php-%3E%3D%207.4-8892BF.svg)](https://php.net/)

## Description

Set of ETL generic Transformers

## Transformer - FilterRows

Filter out rows

```php 
<?php

use Flow\ETL\Transformer\Filter\EntryEqualsTo;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\FilterRowsTransformer;
use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;

$transformer = new FilterRowsTransformer(
    new EntryEqualsTo('status', 'NEW'),
);

$transformer->transform(
    new Rows(
        Row::create(new Row\Entry\StringEntry('status', 'PENDING')),
        Row::create(new Row\Entry\StringEntry('status', 'SHIPPED')),
        Row::create(new Row\Entry\StringEntry('status', 'NEW')),
    )
);

```

Available Filters

- [All](src/Flow/ETL/Transformer/Filter/Filter/All.php)
- [Any](src/Flow/ETL/Transformer/Filter/Filter/Any.php)
- [Callback](src/Flow/ETL/Transformer/Filter/Filter/Callback.php)
- [EntryEqualsTo](src/Flow/ETL/Transformer/Filter/Filter/EntryEqualsTo.php)
- [EntryNotEqualsTo](src/Flow/ETL/Transformer/Filter/Filter/EntryNotEqualsTo.php)
- [EntryNotNull](src/Flow/ETL/Transformer/Filter/Filter/EntryNotNull.php)
- [EntryNotNumber](src/Flow/ETL/Transformer/Filter/Filter/EntryNotNumber.php)
- [EntryNumber](src/Flow/ETL/Transformer/Filter/Filter/EntryNumber.php)
- [EntryExists](src/Flow/ETL/Transformer/Filter/Filter/EntryExists.php)
- [Opposite](src/Flow/ETL/Transformer/Filter/Filter/Opposite.php)

## Transformer - RemoveEntriesTransformer

Remove transformers by name from each row.

```php
<?php

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\RemoveEntriesTransformer;

$transformer = new RemoveEntriesTransformer('id', 'array');

$transformer->transform(
    Row::create(
        new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('id', 1),
        new Row\Entry\StringEntry('name', 'Row Name'),
        new Row\Entry\ArrayEntry('array', ['test'])
    )
);
```

## Transformer - ArrayUnpackTransformer

Unpacks ArrayEntry into dedicated Entries detecting each array element type.

```php
<?php

use Flow\ETL\Exception\RuntimeException;
use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\ArrayUnpackTransformer;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\RemoveEntriesTransformer;

$arrayUnpackTransformer = new ArrayUnpackTransformer('array_entry');

$rows = (new RemoveEntriesTransformer('array_entry'))->transform(
    $arrayUnpackTransformer->transform(
        new Rows(
            Row::create(
                new Row\Entry\ArrayEntry('array_entry', [
                    'id' => 1,
                    'status' => 'PENDING',
                    'enabled' => true,
                    'datetime' =>  new \DateTimeImmutable('2020-01-01 00:00:00 UTC'),
                    'array' => ['foo', 'bar'],
                    'json' => '["foo", "bar"]',
                    'object' => new \stdClass(),
                    'null' => null,
                ]),
            ),
        ),
    )
);

$this->assertEquals(
    new Rows(
        Row::create(
            new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('id', 1),
            new Row\Entry\StringEntry('status', 'PENDING'),
            new Row\Entry\BooleanEntry('enabled', true),
            new Row\Entry\DateTimeEntry('datetime', new \DateTimeImmutable('2020-01-01 00:00:00 UTC')),
            new Row\Entry\ArrayEntry('array', ['foo', 'bar']),
            new Row\Entry\JsonEntry('json', ['foo', 'bar']),
            new Row\Entry\ObjectEntry('object', new \stdClass()),
            new Row\Entry\NullEntry('null')
        ),
    ),
    $rows
);
```

## Transformer - Keep Entries

```php
<?php

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\KeepEntriesTransformer;

$rows = new Rows(
    Row::create(
        new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('id', 1),
        new Row\Entry\StringEntry('name', 'Row Name'),
        new Row\Entry\ArrayEntry('array', ['test'])
    )
);

$transformer = new KeepEntriesTransformer('name');

$this->assertSame(
    [
        ['name' => 'Row Name'],
    ],
    $transformer->transform($rows)->toArray()
);
```

## Transformer - ObjectToArray

This transformer requires `laminas/laminas-hydrator` or `ocramius/generated-hydrator` in the project

```
composer require laminas/laminas-hydrator
```

```php
<?php

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\ObjectToArrayTransformer;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\Tests\Fixtures\Example;
use GeneratedHydrator\Configuration;

$objectToArrayTransformer = new ObjectToArrayTransformer(
    (new Configuration(Example::class))->createFactory()->getHydrator(),
    'object_entry'
);

$rows = $objectToArrayTransformer->transform(
    new Rows(
        Row::create(
            new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('old_int', 1000),
            new Row\Entry\ObjectEntry('object_entry', new Example()),
        ),
    ),
);

$this->assertEquals(
    new Rows(
        Row::create(
            new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('old_int', 1000),
            new Row\Entry\ArrayEntry('object_entry', [
                'foo' => 1,
                'bar' => 2,
                'baz' => 3,
                'bad' => new \DateTimeImmutable('2020-01-01 00:00:00 UTC'),
            ])
        ),
    ),
    $rows
);

```

## Transformer - RenameEntries 


```php 
<?php

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\RenameEntries\EntryRename;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\RenameEntriesTransformer;

$renameTransformer = new RenameEntriesTransformer(
    new EntryRename('old_int', 'new_int'),
    new EntryRename('null', 'nothing')
);

$rows = $renameTransformer->transform(
    new Rows(
        Row::create(
            new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('old_int', 1000),
            new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('id', 1),
            new Row\Entry\StringEntry('status', 'PENDING'),
            new Row\Entry\BooleanEntry('enabled', true),
            new Row\Entry\DateTimeEntry('datetime', new \DateTimeImmutable('2020-01-01 00:00:00 UTC')),
            new Row\Entry\ArrayEntry('array', ['foo', 'bar']),
            new Row\Entry\JsonEntry('json', ['foo', 'bar']),
            new Row\Entry\ObjectEntry('object', new \stdClass()),
            new Row\Entry\NullEntry('null')
        ),
    ),
);

$this->assertEquals(
    new Rows(
        Row::create(
            new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('id', 1),
            new Row\Entry\StringEntry('status', 'PENDING'),
            new Row\Entry\BooleanEntry('enabled', true),
            new Row\Entry\DateTimeEntry('datetime', new \DateTimeImmutable('2020-01-01 00:00:00 UTC')),
            new Row\Entry\ArrayEntry('array', ['foo', 'bar']),
            new Row\Entry\JsonEntry('json', ['foo', 'bar']),
            new Row\Entry\ObjectEntry('object', new \stdClass()),
            new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('new_int', 1000),
            new Row\Entry\NullEntry('nothing')
        ),
    ),
    $rows
);
```

## Transformer - Cast

```php

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\Cast\CastToDateTime;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\CastTransformer;

$entry = new StringEntry('date', '2020-01-01 00:00:00 UTC');
$transformer = new CastTransformer(new CastToDateTime('date', 'Y-m-d H:i:s.P'));
$rows = $transformer->transform(new Rows(new Row(new Row\Entries($entry))));

$this->assertInstanceOf(DateTimeEntry::class, $rows->first()->get('date'));
$this->assertSame('2020-01-01 00:00:00.+00:00', $rows->first()->valueOf('date'));
```

Casting Types: 

* `Flow\ETL\Transformer\Cast\CastToDateTime`
* `Flow\ETL\Transformer\Cast\CastToDate`
* `Flow\ETL\Transformer\Cast\CastToString`
* `Flow\ETL\Transformer\Cast\CastToInteger`
* `Flow\ETL\Transformer\Cast\CastToJson`
* `Flow\ETL\Transformer\Cast\CastToArray`
* `Flow\ETL\Transformer\Cast\CastJsonToArray`

## Transformer - EntryNameCaseConverter

This transformer requires `jawira/case-converter` in the project

```
composer require jawira/case-converter
```

```php

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\EntryNameCaseConverterTransformer;

$transformer = new EntryNameCaseConverterTransformer(EntryNameCaseConverterTransformer::STYLE_SNAKE);

$rows = $transformer->transform(new Rows(
    Row::create(
        new Row\Entry\StringEntry('CamelCaseEntryName', 'test'),
        new Row\Entry\StringEntry('otherCaseEntryName', 'test'),
    )
));

$this->assertSame(
    [
        [
            'camel_case_entry_name' => 'test',
            'other_case_entry_name' => 'test'
        ]
    ],
    $rows->toArray()
);
```

Supported styles: 

``` 
public const STYLE_CAMEL = 'camel';
public const STYLE_PASCAL = 'pascal';
public const STYLE_SNAKE = 'snake';
public const STYLE_ADA = 'ada';
public const STYLE_MACRO = 'macro';
public const STYLE_KEBAB = 'kebab';
public const STYLE_TRAIN = 'train';
public const STYLE_COBOL = 'cobol';
public const STYLE_LOWER = 'lower';
public const STYLE_UPPER = 'upper';
public const STYLE_TITLE = 'title';
public const STYLE_SENTENCE = 'sentence';
public const STYLE_DOT = 'dot';
```

For the more details, please visit [jawira/case-converter](https://github.com/jawira/case-converter) documentation.

## Transformer - CallbackEntry

```php
<?php

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Row\Entry;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\CallbackEntryTransformer;

$callbackTransformer = new CallbackEntryTransformer(
    fn (Entry $entry) : Entry => new $entry(\str_replace('-', '_', $entry->name()), $entry->value())
);

$rows = $callbackTransformer->transform(
    new Rows(
        Row::create(
            new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('old-int', 1000),
            new Entry\StringEntry('string-entry ', 'String entry')
        )
    )
);

$this->assertEquals(new Rows(
    Row::create(
        new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('old_int', 1000),
        new Entry\StringEntry('string_entry ', 'String entry')
    )
), $rows);
```

## Transformer - ArrayExpand

This transformer takes array and expands it elements into new rows. It can take an array of anything, including 
an array of other arrays. 

```php 

use Flow\ETL\Exception\RuntimeException;
use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\ArrayExpandTransformer;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\ArrayUnpackTransformer;

$arrayExpandTransformer = new ArrayExpandTransformer('array_entry');

$rows = $arrayExpandTransformer->transform(
    new Rows(
        Row::create(
            new Row\Entry\StringEntry('string_entry', 'foo'),
            new Row\Entry\ArrayEntry('array_entry', [1, 2]),
        ),
    ),
);

$this->assertEquals(
    [
        [
            'element' => 1,
            'string_entry' => 'foo',
        ],
        [
            'element' => 2,
            'string_entry' => 'foo',
        ],
    ],
    $rows->toArray()
);
```

## Transformer - StringFormat

```php 

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\StringFormatTransformer;

$transformer = new StringFormatTransformer('id', 'https://examlpe.com/resource/%d');

$rows = $transformer->transform(new Rows(
    new Row(new Row\Entries(new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('id', 1))),
    new Row(new Row\Entries(new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('id', 2))),
    new Row(new Row\Entries(new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('id', 3))),
));

$this->assertSame(
    [
        ['id' => 'https://examlpe.com/resource/1'],
        ['id' => 'https://examlpe.com/resource/2'],
        ['id' => 'https://examlpe.com/resource/3'],
    ],
    $rows->toArray()
);
```

## Transformer - NullStringIntoNullEntry

```php 

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\NullStringIntoNullEntryTransformer;

$transformer = new NullStringIntoNullEntryTransformer('description', 'recommendation');

$rows = $transformer->transform(new Rows(
    Row::create(
        new Row\Entry\IntegerEntry('id', 1),
        new Row\Entry\BooleanEntry('active', false),
        new Row\Entry\StringEntry('name', 'NULL'),
        new Row\Entry\StringEntry('description', 'NULL'),
        new Row\Entry\StringEntry('recommendation', 'null')
    )
));

$this->assertSame(
    [[
        'id' => 1,
        'active' => false,
        'name' => 'NULL',
        'description' => null,
        'recommendation' => null,
    ]],
    $rows->toArray()
);
```

## Transformer - Clone 

```php 

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Row\Entry;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\CloneEntryTransformer;

$rows = (new CloneEntryTransformer('id', 'id-copy'))
    ->transform(
        new Rows(
            Row::create(new Entry\IntegerEntry('id', 1))
        )
    );

$this->assertSame(
    [
        ['id' => 1, 'id-copy' => 1]
    ],
    $rows->toArray()
);
```

## Transformer - ObjectMethod

Executes method at other ObjectEntry and create new entry from the result. 
Origin ObjectEntry is not automatically removed from the Row.

```php 

use Flow\ETL\Exception\RuntimeException;
use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\ObjectMethodTransformer;

$transformer = new ObjectMethodTransformer('object', 'toArray');

$rows = $transformer->transform(new Rows(
    Row::create(new Row\Entry\ObjectEntry('object', $object = new class {
        public function toArray() : array
        {
            return [
                'id' => 1,
                'name' => 'object'
            ];
        }
    }))
));

$this->assertSame(
    [
        [
            'object' => $object,
            'method_entry' => [
                'id' => 1,
                'name' => 'object'
            ]
        ]
    ],
    $rows->toArray()
);
```

## Transformer - ArrayAccessor

Access ArrayEntry value by path in dot notation and create new entry from result.
When strictPath parameter is set to false it creates NullEntry even if path is invalid.

Path allows using wildcards `*` in order to extract values from collections.

```
[
    "users" => [
        ["id" => 1],
        ["id" => 2]
    ]
]
```

Path: `users.*.id` == `[1, 2]`

When not all elements of the collection have same structure, use `?*` to avoid
throwing invalid path exception and.

```
[
    "users" => [
        ["id" => 1],
        ["empty" => true]
    ]
]
```

Path: `users.?*.id` == `[1]`

Both special selectors, `*` and `?*` can also be escaped `\\*` and `\\?*`.

```php 

use Flow\ETL\Exception\RuntimeException;
use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\ObjectMethodTransformer;

$transformer = new ObjectMethodTransformer('object', 'toArray');

$arrayAccessorTransformer = new ArrayAccessorTransformer('array_entry', 'array.foo');

$rows = $arrayAccessorTransformer->transform(
    new Rows(
        Row::create(
            new Row\Entry\ArrayEntry('array_entry', [
                'id' => 1,
                'status' => 'PENDING',
                'enabled' => true,
                'array' => ['foo' => 'bar'],
            ]),
        ),
    )
);

$this->assertEquals(
    new Row\Entry\StringEntry('array.foo', 'bar'),
    $rows->first()->get('array.foo')
);
```


## Transformer - StringConcat

Entries that are not StringEntry type will be skipped even if entry exists

```php 

use Flow\ETL\Row;
use Flow\ETL\Rows;
use Flow\ETL\Transformer\StringConcatTransformer;

$transformer = new StringConcatTransformer([
    'id', 'first_name', 'last_name'
]);

$rows = $transformer->transform(new Rows(
    Row::create(
        new Row\Entry\StringEntry('id', '1'),
        new Row\Entry\StringEntry('first_name', 'Norbert'),
        new Row\Entry\StringEntry('last_name', 'Orzechowicz'),
    )
));

$this->assertSame(
    [
        [
            'id' => '1',
            'first_name' => 'Norbert',
            'last_name' => 'Orzechowicz',
            'element' => '1 Norbert Orzechowicz'
        ]
    ],
    $rows->toArray()
);
```

## Development

In order to install dependencies please, launch following commands:

```bash
composer install
composer install --working-dir ./tools
```

## Run Tests

In order to execute full test suite, please launch following command:

```bash
composer build
```

It's recommended to use [pcov](https://pecl.php.net/package/pcov) for code coverage however you can also use
xdebug by setting `XDEBUG_MODE=coverage` env variable.
